Cut discussion and add limitations (#287)
AlexsLemonade/ScPCA-manuscript: content/05.discussion.md

## Discussion

The ScPCA Portal is a downloadable collection of uniformly processed, summarized single-cell and single-nuclei RNA-seq data and de-identified metadata from pediatric tumor samples.
The Portal includes over 700 samples from 55 tumor types, making this the most comprehensive collection of publicly available pediatric tumor single-cell RNA-seq datasets to our knowledge.
Users can browse and search the Portal via an intuitive web interface and explore visualizations of individual samples via a UCSC Cell Browser interface [@doi:10.1093/bioinformatics/btab503].
Summarized data are available at three different processing stages (unfiltered, filtered, or processed objects) allowing users to 
start from a processed object or perform their own processing, e.g. filtering and normalization.

> Processed objects contain normalized gene expression data, reduced dimensionality results from PCA and UMAP, cell type annotations, and CNV inferences.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Processed objects contain normalized gene expression data, reduced dimensionality results from PCA and UMAP, cell type annotations, and CNV inference results.
```

Standardized metadata, containing human-readable values for all fields and ontology term identifiers for a subset of fields, is also provided for all samples.

> Every library includes a quality control report for assesssing data quality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every library includes a quality control report for assessing data quality.
```

These processed results and metadata allow researchers to save time by moving directly to downstream analyses, such as identifying marker genes or exploring genes of interest.

> Data on the Portal is available as either `SingleCellExperiment` or `AnnData` objects for ease of use within R or Python (e.g., `Bioconductor` or `Scanpy`, respectively) environments.

Reviewer: I think this is a "that is" rather than a "for example" situation

```suggestion
Data on the Portal is available as either `SingleCellExperiment` or `AnnData` objects for ease of use within R or Python (i.e., `Bioconductor` or `scverse`, respectively) environments.
```

Author: I would think it's e.g. because there are more python frameworks, e.g. (<- see what I did there) `muon` or `scvi-tools`. Scanpy is basically your scran but the other frameworks do more heavy lifting

Reviewer: What if you change it to scverse? Which seems closer to the Bioconductor example to me.

The `AnnData` objects also allow users to integrate ScPCA data with data and tools on other platforms.

> In particular, our `AnnData` objects are designed to be mostly compliant with the requirements of CZI CELLxGENE [@doi:10.1101/2021.04.05.438318; @doi:10.1101/2023.10.30.563174; @{https://cellxgene.cziscience.com/}], and these objects can also be used with UCSC Cell Browser [@doi:10.1093/bioinformatics/btab503; @{https://cells.ucsc.edu/}] or Kana [@doi:10.1101/2022.03.02.482701; @{https://www.kanaverse.org/kana/}].

Reviewer: Cell Browser is made explicit elsewhere now!

```suggestion
In particular, our `AnnData` objects are designed to be mostly compliant with the requirements of CZI CELLxGENE [@doi:10.1101/2021.04.05.438318; @doi:10.1101/2023.10.30.563174; @{https://cellxgene.cziscience.com/}], and these objects can also be used with Kana [@doi:10.1101/2022.03.02.482701; @{https://www.kanaverse.org/kana/}].
```

Data can be downloaded both via the Portal web interface and programmatically using the `ScPCAr` R package, which is a wrapper for the ScPCA Portal API (<https://api.scpca.alexslemonade.org/docs/>).

Cell type annotations are also available from three automated methods: `SingleR`, `CellAssign`, and `SCimilarity`.
The first two approaches use publicly available references, while the third uses a foundation model to label cells.
These labels are used to construct ontology-aware consensus cell type labels, which provide a harmonized labeling scheme across samples.

Many samples on the Portal have additional sequencing data which can also be downloaded, including ADT data from CITE-seq, cell hashing data, bulk RNA-seq, or spatial transcriptomics.
These modalities can facilitate expanded analyses.

> For example, ADT data can help label unknown cell types and correlate RNA to protein expression [@doi:10.1038/nmeth.4380], and spatal transcriptomics data can be leverged to gain more insights about distribution of cell types in the tissue [@doi:10.1038/s41467-023-37168-7].

Reviewer: "leverged" is particularly funny to me for reasons I cannot explain

```suggestion
For example, ADT data can help label unknown cell types and correlate RNA to protein expression [@doi:10.1038/nmeth.4380], and spatial transcriptomics data can be leveraged to gain more insights about distribution of cell types in the tissue [@doi:10.1038/s41467-023-37168-7].
```

Author: This is the fun part about stacking manubot PRs, your typos are hidden for a minute(!)

We also introduced our open-source and efficient workflow for uniformly processing datasets available on the Portal, `scpca-nf`, which is available to the entire research community.
In one command, `scpca-nf` can process raw data from various sequencing types, turning FASTQ files into processed `SingleCellExperiment` or `AnnData` objects ready for downstream analyses.
Using Nextflow as the framework for `scpca-nf` with container images for each process makes the workflow modular and portable.
Processed output from running `scpca-nf` on samples from pediatric tumors, cell lines, or other model organisms is eligible for submission to the ScPCA Portal, enabling us to continue to grow the Portal, improving its utility to the research community.

Portal data can also support re-analysis of existing pediatric cancer datasets with bulk RNA-seq, such as the Pediatric Brain Tumor Atlas [@doi:10.1016/j.neo.2022.100846; @doi:10.1016/j.xgen.2023.100340], allowing researchers to glean more insight from published data without obtaining additional samples.

> Ultimately, the ScPCA Portal will save reseachers time and money to advance pediatric cancer research.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ultimately, the ScPCA Portal will save researchers time and money, advancing pediatric cancer research.
```

### Limitations of this study

We note several limitations of the current ScPCA Portal and `scpca-nf` workflow.
First, labeling tumor cells is challenging as neither `SingleR` nor `CellAssign` references include them.
We mitigate this in several ways.

> As references are biased towards normal cells, cells without a consensus cell type annotation are not unlikely to be malignant.

Reviewer: This sounds like something I would write or say
```suggestion
As references are biased towards normal cells, cells without a consensus cell type annotation are likely to be malignant.
```

> We additionally provide CNV estimates for roughly half of Portal libraries, and together with consensus cell types, these can help identify tumor cells, particularly for diagnoses with common copy number alterations such as neuroblastoma (Figure {@fig:fig5}B-D) and osteosarcoma.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We provide CNV estimates for roughly half of Portal libraries, and together with consensus cell types, these can help identify tumor cells, particularly for diagnoses with common copy number alterations such as neuroblastoma (Figure {@fig:fig5}B-D) and osteosarcoma.
```
